.TH DLS 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dls 
\-
disk data recovery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
\fBdls\fR [\fB-belsvV\fR] [\fB-f \fIfstype\fR] [\fB-i \fIimgtype\fR] [\fB-o \fIimgoffset\fR]
\fIimage\fR [\fIimages\fR] [\fIstart-stop\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBdls\fR opens the named \fIimage(s)\fR and copies data blocks (disk
units).  By default, \fBdls\fR copies unallocated data blocks
(addressable disk units) only.  \fBdls\fR was called \fBunrm\fR in
TCT.  

Arguments:
.IP \fB-b\fR
With file systems that have logical blocks that consist of fragments,
don't insert null-byte padding to preserve logical block alignment
in the output.
This option is a no-op with the LINUX ext2fs file system, where
logical blocks and fragments have the same size.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Copy every block. The output should be similar to dd(1).
.IP "\fB-f\fI fstype\fR"
Specifies the file system type.   Use the -? argument for a list
of all supported types.  If not given, the default type for the
platform is used.  
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP \fB-l\fR
List the data information in time machine format.
.IP \fB-s\fR
Copy only the slack space of the image.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Turn on verbose mode, output to stderr.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Display version.
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.
.IP "\fIstart-stop\fR ..."
Examine the specified block number or number range. 
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH HISTORY
First appeared in The Coroners Toolkit (TCT) 1.0 (Wietse Venema).
Now maintained by Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>.
