.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH FFIND 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ffind \- Find the file or directory name that is using a given inode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ffind [-aduvV] [-f fstype] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset]
.I image inode
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ffind
finds the names of files or directories that use 
.I inode
on
.I image.
By default it only will only return the name it finds.  This will
also show the names of deleted file names in some systems such 
as Linux and OpenBSD.   

The arguments are as follows:
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.
.IP inode
Integer of inode to find.

The optional arguments are:
.IP -a
Find all occurrences of inode.
.IP -d
Find deleted entries only.
.IP "-f fstype"
Identify the File System type of the image.  Use the -? argument for a
list of supported file system types.
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP -u
Find undeleted entries only.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP -v
Verbose output to stderr.
.IP -V
Display version.

.PP
This program searches all directory entries looking for the
given inode.  This is useful when an inode has been identified
from a disk unit address using 
.BR find_inode(1).

.SH EXAMPLE
# ffind -a image 212
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.BR ifind (1)
.SH HISTORY
.BR "ffind" " first appeared in " "TCTUTILs" " v1.0 as " "find_file."
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
