.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH FLS 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
fls \- List file and directory names in a forensic image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fls [-adDFlpruvV] [-m
.I mnt
.B ] [-z
.I zone
.B ] [-f
.I fstype
.B ] [-s
.I seconds
.B ] [-i 
.I imgtype
.B ] [-o 
.I imgoffset
.B ] 
.I image [images] 
.B [
.I inode
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fls
lists the files and directory names in the
.I image
and can display file names of recently deleted files for the directory
using the given
.I inode.
If the inode argument is not given, 2 is used.

The arguments are as follows:
.IP -a
Display the "." and ".." directory entries (by default it does not)
.IP -d
Display deleted entries only
.IP -D  
Display directory entries only
.IP "-f fstype"
The type of File System.  Use the -? argument for a list of supported types.
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP -F  
Display file (all non-directory) entries only.  
.IP -l  
Display file details in long format.  The following contents are displayed:

file_type inode file_name mod_time acc_time cre_time size uid gid
.IP "-m mnt"
.RB "Display files in time machine format.  The output can be \
merged with the body file from " "grave-robber(1)" " before " "mactime(1)" "\ 
is run.  The files will be printed as though the image was mounted at 
.I mnt
(for example /usr).  
.IP -p  
Display the full path for each entry.  By default it denotes
the directory depth on recursive runs with a '+' sign. 
.IP -r  
Recursively display directories.  This will not
follow deleted directories, because it can't. 
.IP "-s seconds"
The time skew of the original system in seconds.  For example, if the
original system was 100 seconds slow, this value would be -100.  This 
is only used if -l or -m are given.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP -u  
Display undeleted entries only
.IP -v
Verbose output to stderr.
.IP -V
Display version.
.IP "-z zone"
The ASCII string of the time zone of the original system.  For
example, EST or GMT.  These strings must be defined by your operating
system and may vary.  
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.

.PP
Once the inode has been determined, the file can be recovered using
.BR icat(1)
from The Coroners Toolkit.  The amount of information recovered from
deleted file entries varies depending on the system.  For example,
on Linux, a recently deleted file can be easily recovered, while in
Solaris not even the inode can be determined.  If you just want to
find what file name belongs to an inode, it is easier to use
.BR find_name(1).

.SH EXAMPLES
To get a list of all files and directories in an image use:

	# fls -r image 2

	or just:

	# fls -r image 

To get the full path of deleted files in a given directory:

	# fls -d -p image 29

To get the mactime output do:

	# fls -m /usr/local image 2

If you have a disk image and the file system starts in sector 63, use:

	# fls -o 63 disk-img.dd 

If you have a disk image that is split use:

	# fls -i "split" -o 63 disk-1.dd disk-2.dd disk-3.dd



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.BR ffind (1),
.BR icat (1)


.SH HISTORY
.BR "fls" " first appeared in " "TCTUTILs" " v1.0."

.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
