.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH FSSTAT 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
fsstat \- Display details of a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  fsstat [-f 
.I fstype 
.B ] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset] [-tvV] 
.I image [images] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsstat
displays the details associated with a file system.  The output of this
command is file system specific.  At a minimum, the range of meta-data
values (inode numbers) and content units (blocks or clusters) are given.
Also given are details from the Super Block, such as mount times and
and features.   For file systems that use groups (FFS and EXT2FS), the
layout of each group is listed.  

For a FAT file system, the FAT table is displayed in a condensed format.
Note that the data is in sectors and not in clusters.  

The options are as follows:
.IP "-t type"
Print the file system type only. 
.IP "-f fstype"
Specify the file system type.  Use the -? option for supported types.
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP -v
Verbose output of debugging statements to stderr
.IP -V
Display version
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.SH HISTORY
.BR "fsstat" " first appeared in " "TASK" " v1.0."
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
