.TH ICAT 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
icat
\-
copy files by inode number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
\fBicat\fR [\fB-hrsvV\fR] [\fB-f \fIfstype\fR] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset]
\fIimage [images]\fR \fIinode\fR 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBicat\fR opens the named \fIimage(s)\fR and copies the file
with the specified \fIinode\fR number to standard output.

Arguments:
.IP "\fB-f \fIfstype\fR"
Specifies the file system type.  Use the -? argument to view
all supported types.  
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Skip over holes in sparse files, so that absolute address information
is lost. This option saves space when copying sparse files.
.IP \fB-r\fR
Use file recovery techniques if the file is deleted.  
.IP \fB-s\fR
Include the slack space in the output.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose mode, output to stderr.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Display version
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.
.IP \fIinode\fR
Inode number. \fBicat\fR concatenates the contents of all specified
files.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH HISTORY
First appeared in The Coroners Toolkit (TCT) 1.0 and is now
in The Sleuth Kit.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

This version is maintained by Brian Carrier (carrier@sleuthkit.org).

