.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH IFIND 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ifind \- Find the meta-data structure that has allocated a given 
disk unit.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ifind [-avVl] [-f fstype] [-d data_unit] 
.B [-n file] [-p par_inode] [-z ZONE] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset]
.I image [images]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ifind
finds the meta-data structure that has 
.I data_unit
allocated a data unit or has a given file name.  In some cases
any of the structures can be unallocated and this will still find
the results.  

There are several required and optional arguments.  The image file names must be specified each time:
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'..PP

You must also specify what you are looking for and include one of the following:
.IP "-d data_unit"
Finds the meta data structure that has allocated a given data unit (block, 
cluster, etc.)

.IP "-n file"
Finds the meta data structure that is pointed to by the given file name.

.IP "-p par_inode"
Finds the unallocated MFT entries in an NTFS image that have the given
inode as the parent.  Can be used with '-l and -z'.  

.PP 
There are also several optional arguments:
.IP -a
Find all meta-data structures (only works when looking with a data_unit).
.IP "-f fstype"
Specify the file system type.  Use the -? argument for list of supported types.
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP "-l"
List the details of each file found with '-p', like 'fls -l'.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP -v
Verbose output to stderr.
.IP -V
Display version.
.IP -z ZONE
If '-p -l' were given, this will set the timezone for the correct times.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

# ifind -f fat -d 456 fat-img.dd

# ifind -f linux-ext2 -n "/etc/" linux-img.dd

# ifind -f ntfs -p 5 -l -z EST5EDT ntfs-img.dd


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.SH HISTORY
.BR "ifind" " first appeared in " "TCTUTILs" " v1.0 as find_inode."
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
