.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH ISTAT 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
istat \- Display details of a meta-data structure (i.e. inode)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  istat [-b 
.I num
.B ] [-f
.I fstype 
.B ] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset] [-vV] [-z
.I zone
.B ] [-s
.I seconds
.B ]
.I image [images] inode
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B istat
displays the uid, gid, mode, size, link number, modified , accessed, 
changed times, and all the disk units a structure has allocated.

The options are as follows:
.IP "-b num"
Display the addresses of num disk units.  Useful when the inode is 
unallocated with size 0, but still has block pointers.
.IP "-f fstype"
Specify the file system type.  Use the -? option for supported types.
If not given, the default type for the platform is used.
.IP "-s seconds"
The time skew of the original system in seconds.  For example, if the
original system was 100 seconds slow, this value would be -100.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.  Non-512 byte
sectors can be specified using '@' (32@2048).
.IP -v
Verbose output of debugging statements to stderr
.IP -V
Display version
.IP "-z zone"
An ASCII string of the original system's time zone.  For example, EST5EDT or
GMT.  These strings are defined by the operating system and may
vary.  NOTE: This has changed since TCTUTILs.  
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '-i'.
.IP inode
Meta-data number to display stats on

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.BR ils (1)
.SH HISTORY
.BR "istat" " first appeared in " "TCTUTILs" " v1.0."
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
