.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH MMLS 1 "JAN 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mmls \- Display the layout of media management systems (partition tables)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmls [-t
.I mmtype 
.B ] [-o
.I offset
.B ] [ -i
.I imgtype
.B ] [-brvV] 
.I image [images]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mmls
displays the layout of the media management systems, which include partition
tables and disk labels.

The options are as follows:
.IP "-t mmtype"
Specify the media management type.  Use the -? option for supported types.
.IP "-o offset"
Specify the offset into the image where the volume containing the
partition system starts.  The relative offset of the partition system
will be added to this value.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Raw is the default.
.IP -b
Include a column with the partition sizes in bytes
.IP -r
Recurse into DOS partitions and look for other partition tables.  This setup frequently occurs when Unix is installed on x86 systems.  
.IP -v
Verbose output of debugging statements to stderr
.IP -V
Display version
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk images whose format is given with '-i'.

.PP
'mmls' is similar to 'fdisk -lu' in Linux with a few differences.  
Namely, it will show which sectors are not being used so that those
can be searched for hidden data.  It also gives the length value so
that it can be plugged into 'dd' more easily for extracting the
partitions.  It also will show BSD disk labels for Free, Open, and
NetBSD and will display the output in sectors and not cylinders.  
Lastly, it works on non-Linux systems.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
To list the partition table of a Windows system using autodetect:

# mmls disk_image.dd

To list the contents of a BSD system that starts in sector 12345 of a split image:

# mmls -t bsd -o 12345 -i split disk-1.dd disk-2.dd


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.SH HISTORY
.BR "mmls" " first appeared in " "The Sleuth Kit" " v1.63."
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier@sleuthkit.org>
